Adds egress netpol docs (#92159)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-networkpolicy-deny-all-egress-network-policy.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/network_security/network_policy/nw-networkpolicy-full-multitenant-isolation.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-networkpolicy-deny-all-egress-network-policy_{context}"]
= Creating a default deny all egress network policy

Use the following procedure to create a `default-deny-all` network policy that isolates all pods for egress. 

[WARNING]
====

> Without configuring a `NetworkPolicy` custom resource (CR) that allows traffic communication, the following policy might cause communication problems across your cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without configuring a `NetworkPolicy` that allows traffic communication, the following policy might cause communication problems across your cluster.
```

Creating a `default-deny-all` network policy that isolates pods for egress breaks pod-to-pod communication for ingress. This behavior is expected, and every connection allowed in the ingress direction must also allowlist connections in the egress direction. After creating a `default-deny-all` network policy, you should "Configure internet for egress pods" and "Enable pod-to-pod communication". 
====

.Prerequisites

> * Your cluster uses a network plugin that supports `NetworkPolicy` objects, such as the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin, with `mode: NetworkPolicy` set.

Author: Fixed. I actually removed ALL instances in our docs of this.

* You installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* You are logged in to the cluster with a user with admin privileges.
* You have configured an ingress network policy.
* You have created at least two projects in your cluster.
* You have created pods in your cluster.

.Procedure

> 

Reviewer: <pre>
kind: NetworkPolicy
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: default-deny-all-egress
spec:
  podSelector: {}
  policyTypes:
  - Egress
 </pre>

. Create the following YAML that defines a `default-deny-all-egress` network policy to deny egress for all pods in the namespace. Save the YAML in the `default-deny-all-egress.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: default-deny-all-egress
spec:
  podSelector: {}
  egress:
  - to:
    ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 53 <1>
    - protocol: UDP
      port: 53 <1>
  policyTypes:
  - Egress
----
<1> Allows connections to port `53` on any IP to facilitate DNS lookups. 

. Apply the policy by entering the following command:
+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> Do not apply this network policy to the `kube-system` namespace, as it can break cluster functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not apply default-deny-all-egress network policy to the `kube-system` namespace, as it can break cluster functionality.
```

====
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc apply -f default-deny-all-egress.yaml -n project-a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc apply -f allow-egress-to-openshift-dns -n project-a
```

----

. Because network policies are namespaced resources, you must create this network policy for each namespace. Apply the policy to other applicable namespaces by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f default-deny-all-egress.yaml -n project-b
----
+
With the application of the `default-deny-all-egress` network policy, pods in those namespaces cannot receive external traffic.

.Verification

. Test egress connection on a pod by entering the following command. If the network policy was successfully applied, then the pod is unable to reach the endpoint: 
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc exec -it test-pod-b -n project-b -- nslookup google.com
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached
----

> . Test ingress connection between pods in the `project-a` and `project-b` namespaces by entering the following command. Because the `default-deny-all-egress` network policy breaks pod-to-pod communication for egress, pods should not longer be able to communicate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Test egress connection between pods in the `project-a` and `project-b` namespaces by entering the following command. Because the `default-deny-all-egress` network policy breaks pod-to-pod communication for egress, pods should not longer be able to communicate.
```

> . Test ingress connection between pods in the `project-a` and `project-b` namespaces by entering the following command. Because the `default-deny-all-egress` network policy breaks pod-to-pod communication for ingress, pods should not longer be able to communicate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Test ingress connection between pods in the `project-a` and `project-b` namespaces by entering the following command. Because the `default-deny-all-egress` network policy breaks pod-to-pod communication for egress, pods should not longer be able to communicate.
```
